# AssignmentOneActivity05

Version control systems (VCS) are software tools designed to streamline the program development process by reducing the impact of human error whilst also allowing multiple people to work on a single program simultaneously. By managing changes to software code and keeping track of the changes made, developers can turn back the clock and access earlier versions of the code. Therefore, mistakes in code can be fixed by comparing how the code was previously to the current code ("What is version control | Atlassian Git Tutorial", 2021). Certain version control systems also allow for the creation of ‘branches’ – copies of the original code that can be edited or added to. These branches can then be merged with the main code if the edited changes are deemed worthy. This allows for many people to be able to work on a single project at the same time thus allowing teams to work faster and smarter ("Top 10 Version Control Systems | Hacker Noon", 2021).  When determining what VCS program to use it is important to consider the pros and cons of the two available types of version control systems, centralized and distributed, and the organisational requirements of the company that the program is being built for.
The main difference between the two VCS types is that centralized control systems keep the history of changes on a central server which everyone working on a project push and pull the latest changes they have to. Whereas, in a distributed version control system, everyone has a local copy of the entire projects history. Therefore, the project can be worked on without the need to be online ("Version Control Systems: Distributed vs. Centralized", 2021). As a result of these differences, centralized version control systems tend to allow for tighter security where distributed systems allow for concurrent workflows that can increase the development process (Assembla, 2021). When determining what VCS to use for the development of MusoPlan, the two options in, SVN and Git, were considered and compared against the organisational requirements. 
SVN is a centralized system that was introduced in 2000 by CollabNet. The benefits of SVN include the tight security that comes with being a centralized system, file locking (increases the strength of the security) and support for large binary files. There is also less to keep track of as there is only two data repositories, the SVN server and files in the local working copy. Git is a distributed system that was released in 2005 and has become a very popular choice for developers. The benefits of Git include, being ideal for agile teams with a distributed workflow, the ability to create branches and overall speed of the development process. After comparing these two systems differences and considering the organisational requirements for Globex, Git was determined to be the best option to use as the VCS. Globex’s organisational requirements include the need for a distributed version control and the ability to create branches for all of the development to take place on. Git was the clear choice.
The Git installation and configuration process is simple and fairly straight forward. Download the latest Git installer for your operating system. After successfully started the installer, follow the prompts on the ‘Git Setup’ wizard screen to complete the installation. Once completed open Git Bash and run the following commands to configure your Git username and email (replaced with your name and email address) 
$ git config --global user.name "Your Name" 
$ git config --global user.email "your_email@emailhost.com". 
An optional next step is to install the Git credential helper to save time having to supply your username and password every time you interact with the remote repository ("Install Git | Atlassian Git Tutorial", 2021). Git is now installed, configurated and ready to go. 



 References
(2021). Retrieved 27 August 2021, from https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/365/Choosing%20Your%20VCS.pdf
Install Git | Atlassian Git Tutorial. (2021). Retrieved 27 August 2021, from https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/install-git
Top 10 Version Control Systems | Hacker Noon. (2021). Retrieved 27 August 2021, from https://hackernoon.com/top-10-version-control-systems-4d314cf7adea
Version Control Systems: Distributed vs. Centralized. (2021). Retrieved 27 August 2021, from https://www.oshyn.com/blog/version-control-systems-distributed-vs-centralized
What is version control | Atlassian Git Tutorial. (2021). Retrieved 27 August 2021, from https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-version-control
